# Cisco IOS Operating System

__User Exec Mode(>)__ (prompt ending with >)

__Privilege Exec Mode(#)__ (run `enable` or `en` to enter into privilege exec mode, prompt ending with #)
show and debug commands are run at privilege exec mode.

__Configration terminal(config)__ (run `config t`) & then configure any interfaces on the router by executing `interface <name-of-the-interface> 0/0`)
When you are in this mode you are empowered to configure anything.
You can run show command only in the privilege exec mode but to run it from any where, `do show ip interface brief`

__Interface Mode(config-if)__ (type `end` or CNTRL-C on the key board to go all the way back to user exec mode)
When `interface` command is executed for configuring a particular interface, the prompt changes again and you will enter into
Interface mode.

_Note_:- `show` commands as said earlier need to be run on 
Another useful command is `show running-config` and that shows the entire running configuration on the router.
If you are interested in a particular interface then you run `show run int fast0/0` and a little advanced command is `sh run | begin hostname` shows configuration
that beings with the `hostname` string.

If you want to know more options with show run pipe command use `sh run | ?` question mark at the end.
`sh run | Include int` that shows all the configuration that includes `interface` word.
`sh run | Exclude int` shows all the configuration that excludes `interface` key word.

There are two types of configuration, _running_ config and _startup_ config.
The running configuration is a configuration that is in effect immediately & is temporary in nature.
The startup configuration is a configuration that is persisted across device reboots.

If you have know the startup configuration, execute the following command.
`show startup-config`
And we must run `copy run start` command to persist the running config to startup config. And you need to be in `privilege exec mode`.

You can however back up the running config & various options have been provided. `copy run ?` to know more.
`copy run flash:<desired_file_name>` could be run to save the running config to flash. And to verify that you can do a `show flash`

Taking a backup of startup config & running config.
```
Rx1#copy startup-config flash:
Destination filename [startup-config]? startup-config-backup
0 bytes copied in 0.416 secs (0 bytes/sec)

Rx1#copy running-config flash:
Destination filename [running-config]? running-config-backup
Building configuration...
[OK]


Rx1#show flash:

System flash directory:
File  Length   Name/status
  3   33591768 c2900-universalk9-mz.SPA.151-4.M4.bin
  5   700      running-config-backup
  2   28282    sigdef-category.xml
  1   227537   sigdef-default.xml
  6   700      startup-config-backup
[33848987 bytes used, 221895013 available, 255744000 total]
249856K bytes of processor board System flash (Read/Write)
```


If you want to restore from backed up flash configuration, you need to earse the startup configuration first.
thats because restoration merges the changes rather than overwriting it.

`wr erase` is the command that will wipe out startup configuration from nvram filesystem. And then
`copy flash:<backedup_file_name> start`

You could copy files to a `tfpt` server by providing the remote server's ip & the destination file name.

### Configuration Storage Locations

|Config | Component|
|-|-|
|running config|RAM|
|startup config|NVRAM|
|cisco ios os|flash|

## List of commands

```
enable or en                     (enable privilege exec mode)
disable or disa                  (exiting from privilege exec mode)
?                                (to know what commands can be executed in a specific mode)
     
     
<privilege exec mode>
show startup-config
show running-config
show ip interface brief (must be executed in privilege mode)

<global configuration mode>
config t 
do show ip interface brief
interface <interface_number> <interface_num>/<interface_num>
hostname <new_hostname>

<Taking backups>
copy running-config flash:
copy startup-config flash:
show running-config
show startup-config
reload
```





